Proofreading MO Guide (#11605)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.md

> # Converting Model with Model Optimizer {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Converting Models with Model Optimizer {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide}
```

@endsphinxdirective

Model Optimizer is a cross-platform command-line tool that facilitates the transition between training and deployment environments, performs static model analysis, and adjusts deep learning models for optimal execution on end-point target devices.

> When using Model Optimizer, the tool assumes that you already have a deep learning model trained using one of the supported frameworks: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or represented in ONNX format. Model Optimizer produces an Intermediate Representation (IR) of the model, which can be inferred with [OpenVINO™ Runtime](../OV_Runtime_UG/openvino_intro.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Model Optimizer, you are assumed to already have a deep learning model that is trained using one of the supported frameworks: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or represented in ONNX format. Model Optimizer produces an Intermediate Representation (IR) of the model, which can be inferred with [OpenVINO™ Runtime](../OV_Runtime_UG/openvino_intro.md).
```

> **NOTE**: Model Optimizer does not infer models. It is an offline tool that converts a model into IR and optimizes it before the inference takes place.

The scheme below illustrates the typical workflow for deploying a trained deep learning model:

![](img/BASIC_FLOW_MO_simplified.svg)

The IR is a pair of files describing the model:

*  <code>.xml</code> - Describes the network topology.

*  <code>.bin</code> - Contains the weights and biases binary data.

> **NOTE**: The generated IR can be additionally optimized for inference by [Post-training optimization](../../tools/pot/docs/Introduction.md)
> that applies post-training quantization methods.

> **TIP**: You also can work with the Model Optimizer inside the OpenVINO™ [Deep Learning Workbench](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/workbench_docs_Workbench_DG_Introduction.html) (DL Workbench).
> It is a web-based graphical environment that enables you to optimize, fine-tune, analyze, visualize, and compare performance of deep learning models.

> ## Run Model Optimizer

Author: ```suggestion
## Running Model Optimizer
```

Convert the model to IR by running the Model Optimizer:

```sh
mo --input_model INPUT_MODEL
```

> If out-of-the-box conversion (only the *`--input_model`* parameter is specified) have not succeed, use mentioned below parameters for overriding input shapes and cutting the model.

Author: ```suggestion
If out-of-the-box conversion (only the *`--input_model`* parameter is specified) is not successful, use the parameters mentioned below for overriding input shapes and cutting the model.
```

Model Optimizer provides two parameters to override original input shapes for model conversion: *`--input`* and *`--input_shape`*.

> For more information about these parameters, refer to the [Setting Input Shapes](prepare_model/convert_model/Converting_Model.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about these parameters, refer to the [Setting Input Shapes](prepare_model/convert_model/Converting_Model.md) guide.
```

To cut off unwanted parts of a model (such as unsupported operations and training sub-graphs),
use the *`--input`* and *`--output`* parameters to define new inputs and outputs of the converted model.

> For a more detailed description, refer to the [Cutting Off Parts of a Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Cutting_Model.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For a more detailed description, refer to the [Cutting Off Parts of a Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Cutting_Model.md) guide.
```

> Additional input pre-processing sub-graphs can also be inserted into the converted model, by using

Author: ```suggestion
Additional input pre-processing sub-graphs can also be inserted into the converted model by using
```

the *`--mean_values`*, *`scales_values`*, *`--layout`*, and other parameters described

> in the [Embedding Preprocessing Computation article](prepare_model/Additional_Optimizations.md).

Author: ```suggestion
in the [Embedding Preprocessing Computation](prepare_model/Additional_Optimizations.md) article.
```

> Model Optimizer's compression parameter *`--data_type`* allows to generate IR of the *`FP16`* data type. For more details, refer to the [Compression of a Model to FP16 guide](prepare_model/FP16_Compression.md).

Author: ```suggestion
The *`--data_type`* compression parameter in Model Optimizer allows generating IR of the *`FP16`* data type. For more details, refer to the [Compression of a Model to FP16](prepare_model/FP16_Compression.md) guide.
```

> Full list of conversion parameters is available in Model Optimizer. It can be accessed by running the command below:

Author: ```suggestion
A full list of conversion parameters is available in Model Optimizer. It can be accessed by running the command below:
```

> A full list of conversion parameters is available in Model Optimizer. It can be accessed by running the command below:

Reviewer: ### 
```suggestion
To get the full list of conversion parameters available in Model Optimizer, run the following command:
```

```sh
mo --help
```

## Examples of CLI Commands

Below is a list of separate examples for different frameworks and Model Optimizer parameters:

> 1. Launch Model Optimizer for a TensorFlow MobileNet model in the binary protobuf format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Launch Model Optimizer for a TensorFlow MobileNet model in the binary protobuf format:
```

```sh
mo --input_model MobileNet.pb
```

> Launch Model Optimizer for a TensorFlow BERT model in the SavedModel format, with three inputs. Explicitly specify input shapes

Author: ```suggestion
Launch Model Optimizer for a TensorFlow BERT model in the SavedModel format with three inputs. Specify input shapes explicitly
```

> Launch Model Optimizer for a TensorFlow BERT model in the SavedModel format, with three inputs. Explicitly specify input shapes

Author: ```suggestion
Launch Model Optimizer for a TensorFlow BERT model in the SavedModel format, with three inputs. Explicitly specify input shapes, 
```

> where the batch size and the sequence length equal 2 and 30 respectively:

Author: ```suggestion
, where the batch size and the sequence length equal 2 and 30 respectively:
```

```sh
mo --saved_model_dir BERT --input mask,word_ids,type_ids --input_shape [2,30],[2,30],[2,30]
```

> For more information, refer to the [Converting a TensorFlow Model guide](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_TensorFlow.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [Converting a TensorFlow Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_TensorFlow.md) guide.
```

> 2. Launch Model Optimizer for an ONNX OCR model and explicitly specify new output:

Author: ```suggestion
2. Launch Model Optimizer for an ONNX OCR model and specify new output explicitly:
```

```sh
mo --input_model ocr.onnx --output probabilities
```

> For more information, refer to the [Converting an ONNX Model guide](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_ONNX.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [Converting an ONNX Model (prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_ONNX.md) guide.
```

> > **NOTE**: PyTorch models must be exported to the ONNX format before conversion into IR. More information on this subject is provided in the [Converting a PyTorch Model guide](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_PyTorch.md).

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: PyTorch models must be exported to the ONNX format before conversion into IR. More information on this subject is provided in the [Converting a PyTorch Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_PyTorch.md) guide.
```

> > **NOTE**: PyTorch models must be exported to the ONNX format before conversion into IR. More information on this subject is provided in the [Converting a PyTorch Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_PyTorch.md) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: PyTorch models must be exported to the ONNX format before conversion into IR. More information can be found in [Converting a PyTorch Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_PyTorch.md).
```

3. Launch Model Optimizer for a PaddlePaddle UNet model and apply mean-scale normalization to the input:
```sh
mo --input_model unet.pdmodel --mean_values [123,117,104] --scale 255
```

> For more information, refer to the [Converting a PaddlePaddle Model guide](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Paddle.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [Converting a PaddlePaddle Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Paddle.md) guide.
```

4. Launch Model Optimizer for an MXNet SSD Inception V3 model and specify first-channel layout for the input:
```sh
mo --input_model ssd_inception_v3-0000.params --layout NCHW
```

> For more information, refer to the [Converting an MXNet Model guide](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_MxNet.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [Converting an MXNet Model] (prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_MxNet.md) guide.
```

> 5. Launch Model Optimizer for a Caffe AlexNet model with input channels in the RGB format, which needs to be reversed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Launch Model Optimizer for a Caffe AlexNet model with input channels in the RGB format which needs to be reversed:
```

```sh
mo --input_model alexnet.caffemodel --reverse_input_channels
```

> For more information, refer to the [Converting a Caffe Model guide](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Caffe.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [Converting a Caffe Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Caffe.md) guide.
```

6. Launch Model Optimizer for a Kaldi LibriSpeech nnet2 model:
```sh
mo --input_model librispeech_nnet2.mdl --input_shape [1,140]
```

> For more information, refer to the [Converting a Kaldi Model guide](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Kaldi.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [Converting a Kaldi Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Kaldi.md) guide.
```

@endsphinxdirective

Model Optimizer is a cross-platform command-line tool that facilitates the transition between training and deployment environments, performs static model analysis, and adjusts deep learning models for optimal execution on end-point target devices.

To use it, you need a pre-trained deep learning model in one of the supported formats: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or ONNX. Model Optimizer converts the model to the OpenVINO Intermediate Representation format (IR), which you can infer later with [OpenVINO™ Runtime](../OV_Runtime_UG/openvino_intro.md).

> > **NOTE**: Model Optimizer does not infer models. 

Author: ```suggestion
Note that Model Optimizer does not infer models.
```

@endsphinxdirective

> Model Optimizer is a cross-platform command-line tool that facilitates the transition between training and deployment environments, performs static model analysis, and adjusts deep learning models for optimal execution on end-point target devices.

Author: ```suggestion
Model Optimizer is a cross-platform command-line tool. It does not infer models but facilitates the transition between training and deployment environments, performs static model analysis, and adjusts deep learning models for optimal execution on end-point target devices.
```
A bit of rewording to avoid the disclaimer.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should start with stating what it does not do, like Maciek mentioned earlier. Following this approach, we should also change OV Runtime article to state it does not convert models. Let's leave it with "that."

> When using Model Optimizer, you are assumed to already have a deep learning model that is trained using one of the supported frameworks: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or represented in ONNX format. Model Optimizer produces an Intermediate Representation (IR) of the model, which can be inferred with [OpenVINO™ Runtime](../OV_Runtime_UG/openvino_intro.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use it, you need a pre-trained deep learning model in one of the supported formats: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or ONNX. Model Optimizer converts the model to the OpenVINO Intermediate Representation format (IR), which you can later infer with [OpenVINO™ Runtime](../OV_Runtime_UG/openvino_intro.md).
```

Author: ```suggestion
To use it, you need a pre-trained deep learning model in one of the supported formats: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or ONNX. Model Optimizer converts the model to the OpenVINO Intermediate Representation format (IR), which you can infer later with [OpenVINO™ Runtime](../OV_Runtime_UG/openvino_intro.md).
```
Tiny correction and it flies away :)

Reviewer: I think there is a difference between "framework" and "format"? The original version says "trained using one of the supported frameworks: TensorFlow, PyTorch, PaddlePaddle, MXNet, Caffe, Kaldi, or represented in ONNX format", I would be careful to change the saying.

Reviewer 2: The format results directly from the framework, so in this case it shouldn't be a problem. Even less so, if we have "onnx format" here. Besides, we always stress that it converts different model formats, so we can assume the same intention here ;)
And about the "later" thing, I wanted it to be in the meaning of "then" and not "in the future" :D but I won't pursue it. It has already flown away, so what would be the point ;)

Reviewer: > 

I think we should remove the word "format" in this:
.....Model Optimizer converts the model to the OpenVINO Intermediate Representation **format** (IR), which you....

Reviewer 2: I agree with linking for sure! Especially that we have this nice, long name here :)
But I am not convinced we should remove the word "format" OV IR is our model format. We should even reinforce the connection for our readers. We need to make people associate OpenVINO format with the IR format.

Author: I would also leave the word "format". The "IR format" phrase is quite popular throughout our documentation.

> > **NOTE**: Model Optimizer does not infer models. It is an offline tool that converts a model into IR and optimizes it before the inference takes place.

Reviewer 2: How about we remove the disclaimer? Rewording the previous paragraph should be enough to drive the message and we can avoid repeating the same thing twice.

Author: You are right, no need for repetition.

Reviewer: I think this disclaimer is not repetitive information. The previous paragraph says what MO does, while this disclaimer clearly says what it does not do to avoid confusion. I suggest we keep it.

Reviewer 3: I agree with Yuan. I saw Sebastian rewording and I don't know if that is only me but it is really unfitting that when we describe item for the first time in article we start with stuff it can't do instead of what it is suppose to do. Also by leaving it as disclaimer we highlight it to reader to pay more focus on information what MO shouldn't be used for.

Reviewer 2: What I meant is that we have two fragments. One states what  MO does and one stated what it does not do. It is like saying:
Ov converts to IR, which you can later infer with OpenVINO™ Runtime.
Remember that MO does not infer models, use OpenVINO™ Runtime for that.

I think it does count as a repetition :) When I mentioned rewording the previous paragraph I meant the rewording already in place, not implementing the disclaimer but in other words :) This way we actually omit talking about anything MO can't do. Not one negation in the previous paragraph :D Let's take a second look at the entire fragment.

Reviewer: I think there was a reason to highlight that in a Note style, could be coming from a customer because we didn't say things explicitly. Can we keep that?

Reviewer 2: I think in the current version it is quite clear, but if you strongly feel like the disclaimer should stay, let's leave it and see how it looks :) Let's just shorten it to the "I don't infer!" part, to avoid repetition.

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Model Optimizer does not infer models. 
```
And so here it goes ;)

> > **NOTE**: Model Optimizer does not infer models. It is an offline tool that converts a model into IR and optimizes it before the inference takes place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Model Optimizer does not infer models.
```

> The scheme below illustrates the typical workflow for deploying a trained deep learning model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The figure below illustrates the typical workflow for deploying a trained deep learning model:
```

Reviewer 2: Alright! I think we should add a new point to our alignment guide :) Let's not use scheme! :D

![](img/BASIC_FLOW_MO_simplified.svg)

> The IR is a pair of files describing the model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where IR is a pair of files describing the model:
```

*  <code>.xml</code> - Describes the network topology.

*  <code>.bin</code> - Contains the weights and biases binary data.

> **NOTE**: The generated IR can be additionally optimized for inference by [Post-training optimization](../../tools/pot/docs/Introduction.md)
> that applies post-training quantization methods.

> > **TIP**: You also can work with the Model Optimizer inside the OpenVINO™ [Deep Learning Workbench (DL Workbench)](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/workbench_docs_Workbench_DG_Introduction.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **TIP**: You can also work with Model Optimizer in OpenVINO™ [Deep Learning Workbench (DL Workbench)](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/workbench_docs_Workbench_DG_Introduction.html), which is a web-based tool with GUI for optimizing, fine-tuning, analyzing, visualizing, and comparing performance of deep learning models.
```

> > It is a web-based graphical environment that enables you to optimize, fine-tune, analyze, visualize, and compare performance of deep learning models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> ## Running Model Optimizer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Run Model Optimizer
```

> To convert the model to IR, run Model Optimizer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert a model to IR, you can run Model Optimizer by using the following command:
```

```sh
mo --input_model INPUT_MODEL
```

If out-of-the-box conversion (only the *`--input_model`* parameter is specified) is not successful, use the parameters mentioned below for overriding input shapes and cutting the model.

> Model Optimizer provides two parameters to override original input shapes for model conversion: *`--input`* and *`--input_shape`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Model Optimizer provides two parameters to override original input shapes for model conversion: *`--input`* and *`--input_shape`*.
```

For more information about these parameters, refer to the [Setting Input Shapes](prepare_model/convert_model/Converting_Model.md) guide.

> To cut off unwanted parts of a model (such as unsupported operations and training sub-graphs),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To cut off unwanted parts of a model (such as unsupported operations and training sub-graphs),
```

use the *`--input`* and *`--output`* parameters to define new inputs and outputs of the converted model.
For a more detailed description, refer to the [Cutting Off Parts of a Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Cutting_Model.md) guide.

> Additional input pre-processing sub-graphs can also be inserted into the converted model by using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Additional input pre-processing sub-graphs can also be inserted into the converted model by using
```

the *`--mean_values`*, *`scales_values`*, *`--layout`*, and other parameters described
in the [Embedding Preprocessing Computation](prepare_model/Additional_Optimizations.md) article.

> The *`--data_type`* compression parameter in Model Optimizer allows generating IR of the *`FP16`* data type. For more details, refer to the [Compression of a Model to FP16](prepare_model/FP16_Compression.md) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The *`--data_type`* compression parameter in Model Optimizer allows generating IR of the *`FP16`* data type. For more details, refer to the [Compression of a Model to FP16](prepare_model/FP16_Compression.md) guide.
```

> ## Examples of CLI Commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example Commands of Using Model Optimizer
```

Reviewer 3: I think the "Examples of CLI Commands" is better option. If we really want to change it, then how about this:

```suggestion
## Example Commands of Model Optimizer to Use
```

Author: I am also an advocate of the phrase "Examples of CLI Commands". IMHO it is self-explanatory and does not need  elaboration.

Reviewer 2: I would agree the article itself indicates that CLI commands refer to MO. In this context it should be fine to leave the original version.

Author: ```suggestion
## Examples of CLI Commands
```

Below is a list of separate examples for different frameworks and Model Optimizer parameters:

> - Launch Model Optimizer for a TensorFlow MobileNet model in the binary protobuf format:

Reviewer 2: I guess it is a misprint to remove the number, but just to be sure I'm not missing something, a "comment" instead of a "suggestion" ;)

Reviewer: My fault. I changed it to unordered list first and then I realized that there is a sub-list under this item. To avoid any formatting issues, I deleted my suggestion but somehow it's still committed..

```sh
mo --input_model unet.pdmodel --mean_values [123,117,104] --scale 255
```
For more information, refer to the [Converting a PaddlePaddle Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Paddle.md) guide.

4. Launch Model Optimizer for an MXNet SSD Inception V3 model and specify first-channel layout for the input:
```sh
mo --input_model ssd_inception_v3-0000.params --layout NCHW
```
For more information, refer to the [Converting an MXNet Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_MxNet.md) guide.

5. Launch Model Optimizer for a Caffe AlexNet model with input channels in the RGB format which needs to be reversed:
```sh
mo --input_model alexnet.caffemodel --reverse_input_channels
```
For more information, refer to the [Converting a Caffe Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Caffe.md) guide.

6. Launch Model Optimizer for a Kaldi LibriSpeech nnet2 model:
```sh
mo --input_model librispeech_nnet2.mdl --input_shape [1,140]
```
For more information, refer to the [Converting a Kaldi Model](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_Kaldi.md) guide.

> 

Author: I'm not entirely sure I follow your thought. Could you be more elaborate?

To get conversion recipes for specific TensorFlow, ONNX, PyTorch, MXNet, and Kaldi models,

> refer to the [Model Conversion Tutorials](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_Tutorials.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
refer to the [Model Conversion Tutorials](prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_Tutorials.md).
- For more information about IR, see [Deep Learning Network Intermediate Representation and Operation Sets in OpenVINO™](IR_and_opsets.md).
```
